# Lab 1: Set Covering

## Task

Given a number $N$ and some lists of integers $P = (L_0, L_1, L_2, ..., L_n)$,
determine if possible a set of subsets $S = (L_{s_0}, L_{s_1}, L_{s_2}, ..., L_{s_n})$
such that each number between $0$ and $N-1$ appears in at least one list

$$\forall n \in [0, N-1] \ \exists i : n \in L_{s_i}$$

and that the total numbers of elements in all $L_{s_i}$ is minimum. (i.e. $\min \sum_i^{n}len(L_{s_i})$)

## State Encoding

Given $N$ we define:

The initial state as an empty tuple.

Generic state as the tuple:

$S = (s_0, s_1)$

Where

- $s_0 = $ binary map of missing numbers in the state (e.g. `[1, 0, 0, 1]` stands for `[[0, 3]]` as well as `[[0], [3]]`)

- $s_1 = $ last subset (action) added to generate the new state

## Search strategy

The `search` function implemented follows a standard strategy:

1. Start from a node
2. Check if the current node is the goal
3. Generate the nodes reachable from the current node
4. Choose the next node to process
5. Repeat from (2)

### Building the frontier

To generate the candidates we use the generator `possible_action(state: State)`. This yields one list among the ones contained in $P$ (defined in the [Task](#task) section).

To check if the list has already been included it performs a `logical and` between the binary mapping of the list (e.g. `[1, 3]` become `[0, 1, 0, 1]`) and the $s_0$ element of the current state. If the result of this operation is the binary mapping itself, then it's not useful to consider this list.

Given each candidate we build the new state to add to the frontier as:

$S_{n} = (OR(S_{n-1, 0},a_n),\ a_{n})$

### Choosing the next node to process

We sort the nodes on the frontier according to a priority function that includes:

- the cost of the actual state (that is equal to the sum of the lenghts of the actions nedded to reach the state)
- the cost given by an heuristic function that computes the Hamming distance between the current state and the goal state

Here I provide a proof that the choosen heuristic is _admissible_:

> A heuristic is consistent if for every node $n$, every successor $n'$ of $n$ generated by any action $a$, holds $h(n) \leq c(n, a, n') + h(n')$
>
> If $h$ is consistent and $h(goal)=0$ then $h$ is admissible.
>
> [Source](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~kkask/Fall-2016%20CS271/slides/03-InformedHeuristicSearch.pdf)

Let's start by proving that $h(n) = N - u(n)$ is consistent by applying the definition:

> $u(n)$ is the number of covered elements by the state $n$

$$h(n) \leq c(n, a, n') + h(n') \ (1)$$
$$c(n, a, n') + h(n') = (\sum_{i=0}^{K'-1} |a_i|) + (N - u(n')) \geq K' + N - u(n') \ (2)$$
Here I'm assuming three things:
$$u(n) > 0 \ \forall n$$
$$|a_i| > 0 \ \forall i$$
$$min{\sum_{i=0}^{K'-1} |a_i|} = K'$$
Following from $(1)$ and $(2)$:
$$u(n') - u(n) \leq K'$$
This is true by definiton because the number of covered numbers by a state $n'$ is always less or equal than the count of numbers included in the state

So we have proven that $h(n)$ is consistent. What about $h(goal)$? $h(goal) = N - N = 0$, so $h(n)$ is both _consistent_ and _admissible_.

## Experimental results:

|  N   | $\sum$ | Node visited |
| :--: | :----: | :----------: |
|  5   |   5    |      3       |
|  10  |   10   |      3       |
|  20  |   20   |     3504     |
| 100  |   ~    |      ~       |
| 500  |   ~    |      ~       |
| 1000 |   ~    |      ~       |
